---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/thomas.jpg
navigation: True
title: Hello! My Name is Thomas McLean
date: 2025-08-04 10:00:00
tags: [whoami]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post'
author: thomas
---
<p>
I'm a self-taught full-stack developer that enjoys tackling new challenges and is known for their ability to improve quickly using introspection and problem-solving. Ask me about one of my ongoing projects. Check out some of my projects.
</p>

<hr />

<header>
  <h1 id="Work">📁 Work</h1>
</header>

<h3 id="role">📁 Current Role</h3>

<p>
I serve as a Product/Integration Engineer, where I am involved in the entire lifecycle of product implementation, from initial brainstorming to project completion. My responsibilities encompass design, implementation, testing, and deployment, which has allowed me to gain experience with a diverse range of technologies.
</p>

<h3 id="responsibilities">📁 Key Responsibilities</h3>

<h6>My primary focus is on developing solutions that enable both internal and external stakeholders to effectively investigate insurance coverage. This includes:</h6>

<ul>
  <li>
    <strong>Discovering Updated Insurance Coverage:</strong>
    Ensuring that users have access to the latest information regarding insurance policies.
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Managing Prior Authorization Updates:</strong>
    Keeping track of changes in prior authorization requirements.
  </li>
  <li>
    <strong>Identifying Drug Alternatives:</strong>
    Providing options for alternative medications when necessary.
  </li>
</ul>

<p>
Additionally, I am frequently assigned Proof of Concept (POC) projects to test market viability. If a product or feature demonstrates success, I collaborate with the team to prepare it for production and subsequently hand it off to another team for further development.
</p>

<header>
  <h2 id="insights">📁 Daily Insights</h2>
</header>
<h6>In my daily activities, I engage in the following tasks:</h6>

<dl>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Technical Leader</strong></dt>
    <dd>Source of Technical knowledge for projects and applications. I field questions for our teams products and projects. Provide context of why future projects are important. Design project plans and timelines of work for future products. Give level design plans for Products in the Proof of concept phase.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Implementation</strong></dt>
    <dd>Translate design and concepts into functioning software systems. This includes coding, testing, integrating internal and external components to meet acceptance criteria of our products or set by our product managers.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Mentorship and Review</strong></dt>
    <dd>Assist in the growth of Junior and fellow mid level Engineers in development concepts and design patterns. Review pull request, complete risk assessments and provide retrospection for issues effecting external applications.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Cross Team/Cross Companies Communication and Assistance</strong></dt>
    <dd>Facilitate communication between teams and companies to ensure alignment on technical requirements and project goals. Assist in resolving technical issues that span multiple teams or companies, ensuring smooth collaboration and timely delivery of projects.</dd>
  </div>
</dl>

<header>
  <h2 id="insights">📁 Quarterly Insights</h2>
</header>
<h6>In my quarterly activities, I engage in the following tasks:</h6>

<dl>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>API Development:</strong></dt>
    <dd>Create and maintain internal APIs that facilitate data exchange between internal customers and external clients.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Front-End Development:</strong></dt>
    <dd>Build and enhance front-end applications for both internal and external users.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Technical Planning:</strong></dt>
    <dd>Develop project-specific technical requirements and establish technical standards for integrations and other projects.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Scalable Architecture Design:</strong></dt>
    <dd>Designed a scalable microservices architecture that improved system performance and reduced downtime. Led a project to optimize database queries and indexing strategies.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Product Ideation:</strong></dt>
    <dd>Deconstruct new product ideas to effectively plan and organize technical work across multiple applications.</dd>
  </div>
</dl>

<header>
  <h2 id="insights">📁 Achievements</h2>
</header>
<h6>My Recent Achievements</h6>

<dl>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Gateway API Solution</strong></dt>
    <dd>My team was previously paying ~$300,000 annually for a Gateway API that enabled our application to connect to two vendors. After a cost-to-time analysis, I designed and implemented a solution that allowed our team to cancel the contract and eliminate this expense.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Application Monitoring</strong></dt>
    <dd>Leadership has directed that our team will no longer use Grafana and Sentry for monitoring applications in the future. To ensure application health, product performance, and efficient troubleshooting, I implemented logic to integrate our applications with Datadog, an observability platform.</dd>
  </div>
  <div class="insight-card">
    <dt><strong>Prior Authorization Status Check</strong></dt>
    <dd>Previously, our team spent thousands of man hours manually contacting insurance companies to update statuses on prior authorizations. I developed an API to automate the retrieval of PA statuses, significantly reducing costs. This solution supports a product that generates over ~$20 million in revenue annually and saves the company millions in expenditures.</dd>
  </div>
</dl>
